One of the examples of the flyweight pattern that actually appeared in the original Gang of Four book
was to do with text editing.
So now we're going to replicate that example and we're going to take a look at how editing text can
be done with a memory saving technique.
So let's suppose that we want to output formatted text.
I'm going to make a class called formatted text and we're going to have plain text, but we're also
going to have formatting.
So I'll make a constructor constructor like so and I'm going to take the plain text in the constructor
and we're going to save plain text.
So have a read-only variable here.
But in addition, I'm going to have a way of capitalizing certain characters in the text.
Now you might be thinking, well, how can we actually capitalize?
How can we specify what to capitalize?
Now, one of the approaches is to take every single character in the plaintext string and give it an
additional boolean value, indicating whether or not you want to capitalize that particular letter.
So here's what we can do, is we can make another array, so I'll have a private to capitalize.
And when we initialize the text, we also initialize this array.
So we say capitalize equals Kneubuhl with plain text length like so.
And then if you want to capitalize a particular range of letters, you can call a method so you can
call a method called capitalized and you can provide this method with the start and positions that you
want to capitalize.
So in start and end and all this will do is it will set the boolean values in that array so it will
have a for loop for AI starting at start, AI being less than or equal to end and you would say capitalize
at index AI equals true.
All right.
So when it comes to rendering the capitalized text we can override to a string.
So here is the two string override and here we have to rebuild the string, taking into account the
capitalization settings.
So we'll make a string builder, string builder like so, and then we'll go through each of the characters.
So the way I do it typically is I say for each of our C in plain text, but then I use Rishabh or to
change it from four each to just an ordinary four with an index I for example.
So what we do is we say as byroade append and we decide whether or not we want to capitalize that character.
So we have the character C, so depending on whether we want to capitalize it.
So we check, capitalize, capitalize at or if it's true then we want to say charge up to Opper on C,
otherwise we just dependancy.
So you have the string builder and then you return espero to string and that's pretty much it.
So let's see how we can leverage this approach.
So we've implemented capitalization so I can say var F.T. equals new formatted text and we're going
to have a string here.
This is a brave new world that we go.
And then I will say that I want to capitalize the world brave.
So I'm going to say after you capitalize, the starting index is 10, the ending index is 15, which
corresponds to this word.
And then I will write line the word right line, F.T. There we go.
So we execute this and hopefully get our result.
There we go.
So this is a brave new world and the word brave is capitalized.
Now, the problem with this approach is that we're spending a lot of memory for flags which don't need
to be there, essentially, instead of specifying every letter, whether it's capitalized or not.
And you can think of, you know, bold and italic taking up even more memory.
What we might want to do is we might want to just specify that we have a bunch of ranges and those ranges
are capitalized.
So a range is just an indication of the starting value and ending value.
When we go into two string, we can check those ranges and apply capitalization if that is what is required.
So let's implement a kind of better formatted text.
So let's make a new class called better formatted text here.
So it's going to be very similar to the previous example.
We're going to have plain text as a field initialized in the constructor.
But in addition, what we're going to have is we're going to have an inner class, so make an inner
class called text range.
Now, the text range is going to tell us about the start and end positions of the range.
It applies to us.
So we'll have something like public and start and end.
And in addition, we can have the settings here so we can have public bool capitalize and then you can
have other formatting options like bold italic, whatever.
OK, so the only thing you want from a text range apart from this information, is to figure out whether
this text range covers a particular position, any particular index.
So you say public bool covers its position and the position has to be greater than or equal to start
and less than or equal to.
And so we return exactly that return position greater than or equal to start and position less than
or equal to.
And there we go.
So that's what we want from a range.
And now we can return these ranges in better formatted text and now we can give the user arrange to
work with.
So that would be the flyweight object.
So we say public text range get range in start and end, but in addition to returning the range, we
might also want to keep the range so that we know it's part of the formatting.
So if the user customizes that, we apply the formatting later on.
So far, this will have a private list of text ranges and we're going to call this one formatting.
So we'll make a new list of text ranges and what we do when somebody requests for arranges, we make
the range.
First of all, so far, áng equals new text range and we specify start, start equals start and and
equals and like.
So let's not forget the comma here.
And then we do two things.
First, we add it to the set of formatting options.
So formatting dot.
And we have the range, but we also return the range, so we do two things at the same time, and what
this allows us to do is it allows us to get the range from a chunk of text and then customize this range.
So here is the new approach.
We say var BFC equals new, better formatted text.
And here I will just copy of the string over here like so and then I will say better formatted text
don't get range so I'll get the range from 10 to 15.
So that will be my flyweight object and then I will say please capitalize it.
So capitalize equals true.
That will go.
And then once again we can write line BFT, but before we do we have to implement a string because now
the capitalization is done differently.
So coming back to our better formatted string, we now need to do two string override and we're going
to do once again as equals new string builder.
But this time around, things are going to be different because we're going to be going through all
of the ranges checking whether this particular point is covered by that range.
If it is, then we apply all the customizations in that range.
So once again, I'll do let's do a for each of see in plain text string Avago.
So I'll change from four each to four once again.
Very convenient quick action here.
So we will have for each of our range in formatting.
So we check whether this particular letter, the letter will run right now when the index is actually
covered by the range.
So if Range covers this particular index and I and somebody once capitalization, then we capitalize
the string so we change C to char dot to upper C and then of course we append the letter, we append
the letter C, so that's the implementation and see what's going on here.
We have to return obviously espero to string.
So we've implemented the same approach using the flyweight pattern by operating on these text ranges.
And now we can actually try this out because we've got everything in place.
So let's execute the program.
And as you can see, we're getting exactly the same result.
But now we're not wasting memory on these huge arrays of formatting for every individual character.
Instead, we're being specific.
We're saying that this particular range should be capitalized and then we check against the ranges to
make sure that the right letter is, in fact, capitalized.
And that's the essence of the flyweight pattern.